# 1. Single-Tier Applications
- In a single-tier application, the user interface, backend business logic, and the database reside in the same machine.
- Upsides of single-tier applications: no network latency
- Downsides of single-tier applications
    1. The application’s publisher has no control over the application 
        - Once the software is shipped, no code or feature updates can be made
    2. The code in single-tier applications is vulneralable.

# 2. Two-Tier Applications
- A two-tier application involves a client and a server. 
    - The client contains the user interface with the business logic in one machine.
    - The backend server **includes the database** running on a different machine. The database server is hosted by the business and has control over it.

- The need for two-tier applications
    - The code is vulnerable too but there are good examples of two-tier applications:
        1. a to-do liat app or similar planner or a productivity app: the application makes a call to the database server only when creating thier list.
        2. app-based games: files are pretty heavy and they only get downloaded on the client once when the user uses the application for the first time.
    1. When we need to minimize the network latency: When the business logic resides on the client there are fewer network calls to the backend server which keeps the latency of the application low.
    2. When we need control over data in our appliaction: All the data in the application is stored in the database server hosted by the business. The business has complete control over the database component.
    
# 3. Three-Tier Applications
- The user interface, business logic, and the database all reside on different machines and, thus, have different tiers. They are physically separated.
- Reasons to choose a three-tier architecture
    - When we need control over the code/business logic of our application and want it to be secure
    - When we need control over data in our application

# 4. N-tier Applications
- An n-tier application is an application that has more than three components (user interface, backend server, database) involved in its architecture.
- Reasons to have different tiers
    1. To assign dedicated roles/tasks to different components for a loosely coupled architecture
    2. To make the management, maintenance of the system and the introduction of new features in the application easier

# 5. Single Responsibility principle
- Single responsibility principle means giving one dedicated responsibility to a component.
- With the single responsibility principle, the components are loosely coupled in terms of responsibility and making a change to one doesn’t impact the functionality of other components. 

# 6. Difference between Layers & Tiers
- Some prefer to use them interchangeably. However, in the industry, application layers typically mean the user interface, business, service and the data access layers.
- **Layers are at the code level**
    - Layers represent the conceptual/logical organization of the code
        : Layers in an application mean the logical separation at the code level. The layers are the user interface layer, business layer, service layer, and data access layer.
    - Tiers represent the physical separation of components
        : Tiers are the logical separation of components in an application or a service. The components are the database, backend application server, user interface, messaging, and caching.

