# 1. Client
- The client holds our user interface. The user interface is the presentation part of the application
- The user interface runs on the client. A client is a gateway to our application.

## 1-1. Types of Clients
### 1-1-1. Thin Client
- A thin client holds just the user interface of the application which contains no business logic. For every action, the client sends a request to the backend server, just like in a three-tier application.
### 1-1-2. Thick Client
- Thick client holds all or some part of the business logic. These are the **two-tier** applications.
- The typical examples of fat clients are utility apps, online games, and so on.
- Implemented 1) when we need to minimize the network latency 2) When we need to reduce the bandwidth consumption iin the client server communication, for a smooth user experience.

# 2. Server (application server)
- The primary task of a web server is to receive the requests from the client and provide the response after executing the business logic based on the request parameters received from the client.

## 2-1. Server-side Rendering
-  A server is used to render the user interface on the backend and then send the generated data to the client. 

# 3. Request-Response Model
- The client and the server have a request-response model. The client sends the request and the server responds with the data.
- **No request means no response!!**

## 3-1. HTTP Protocol
- request-response protocol
- stateless

## 3-2. REST API and API Endpoints
- In n-tier web applications, every client has to hit a REST endpoint.


# 4. REST API
- REST stands for Representational State Transfer.
- A REST API is an API implementation that adheres to the REST architectural constraints. It acts as an interface. The communication between the client and the server happens over HTTP. 

## 4-1. Decoupled
- "the clients and the backend are decoupled" = the client code does not affect the functionality of the backend service.

## 4-2. API Gateway
- The REST-API acts as a gateway or a single-entry point into the system.

# 5. HTTP PULL vs HTTP PUSH
- Two modes of data transfer between the client and server: HTTP PUSH and HTTP PULL

## 5-1. HTTP PULL
- The client pulls the data from the server whenever required. It keeps doing this over and over to fetch the latest data.
- This is not ideal and a waste of resources and it may bring down the server by excessive pulls.
- AJAX(Asynchronous JavaScript and XML) to send requests to the server in both the HTTP PULL and the HTTP PUSH mechanism.

### 5-1-1. Two Ways of Pulling/Fetching 
1) HTTP GET request to the server manually by triggering an event on the user interface by clicking a button or interacting with any other element on the web page.
2) Pulling data dynamically at regular intervals using AJAX without any human intervention.

### 5-1-2. AJAX
- AJAX is used for adding asynchronous behavior to the web page.
- Dynamic technique of requesting information from the server at regular intervals is known as polling.
- AJAX polling and AJAX long polling is not same. AJAX polling is the HTTP Pull mechanism and AJAX Long polling is a hybrid between the HTTP Push and the Pull, based on the BAYEUX protocol.

## 5-2. HTTP PUSH
- After the client's first request to the server, the server keeps pushing the new updates to the client whenever they are available.
- This saves a lot of network bandwidth and cuts down the load on ther server.
- This is also known as a callback.
- example:
    - Ajax Long polling
    - Web Sockets
    - HTML5 Event Source
    - Message Queues
    - Streaming over HTTP

### 5-2-1. Time To Live (TTL)
- If the client doesn't receive a response from the server within the TTL, the browser kills the connection.
- Open connections consume resources, and there is a limit to the number of open connections a server can handle at one point. If the connections don’t close and new ones are introduced regularly over time, the server will run out of memory.

### 5-2-2. Persistent Connection
- A persistent connection is a network connection between the client and the server that remains open for future requests and responses, as opposed to being closed after a single communication.
- This facilitates HTTP PUSH-based communication between the client and the server.
- Persistent connections consume a lot of resources compared to the HTTP PULL behavior. Good for a browser-based multiplayer game. 
- Long opened connections can be implemented by multiple techniques such as AJAX Long Polling, Web Sockets, Server-Sent Events, etc.

### 5-2-3. Heartbeat Interceptors
- The persistent connection can stay open with the help of Heartbeat Interceptors.
- These are just blank request responses between the client and the server to prevent the browser from killing the connection.
